Updated tutorial to latest versions of Syn components (#6)
projectsyn/commodore-component-tutorial: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

== Creating a Commodore Component

Now we're getting to the actual subject of this tutorial! Let us dive into the real task of creating a new Commodore Component.

=== Using the Commodore Docker Image

We are going to use now the `commodore` tool to generate and compile our new component. This tool is written in Python and requires quite a few dependencies; to make our lives easier, we are instead going to use the corresponding https://hub.docker.com/r/projectsyn/commodore[container image available in Docker Hub].

This is why it is strongly recommended that you define an ad-hoc shortcut, as explained in the https://docs.syn.tools/commodore/running-commodore.html["Running Commodore"] page, which will make using `commodore` a much simpler task. That page contains information relevant for Linux and macOS users.

But for this tutorial, you can simply run the following command to get the job done:

[source,bash]
----
$ source commodore_command.sh
----

Upon completion, you will have the `commodore`, `commodore_compile_all`, and `commodore_push_all` commands ready to use.

=== Checking out the Commodore Project

> In order to create a new component, we need to clone the official Commodore project from GitHub first. Inside of that clone of the Commodore source code we will create a few folders:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to create a new component, we need to prepare a working directory for Commodore.
```

[source,bash]
----

> $ git clone git@github.com:projectsyn/commodore.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ mkdir -p commodore
```

Author: Oh I thought that the commodore project had to be checked out, just a folder is enough then? Cool!

Reviewer: Yeah, since we're using the Commodore docker image in the tutorial, the project doesn't need to be checked out.

$ cd commodore
----

> === Compiling the Commodore Catalog

Reviewer: This whole section seems unnecessary, we need something along the following lines instead:

```
==== Preparing the working directory

The easiest way to prepare a working directory for Commodore is to compile a cluster catalog.
This operation will create all the directories which Commodore expects to be present when creating a new component.
The following command will compile the catalog for one of the clusters which we've created previously.

[source,bash]
----
$ CLUSTER_ID=$(kubectl --context minikube -n lieutenant get cluster --no-headers -o custom-columns="NAME:.metadata.name" | head -n1)
$ commodore catalog compile ${CLUSTER_ID}
----

```

[source,bash]
----

> $ commodore component new fortune

Reviewer: Setting the owner here will correctly configure the remote of the new component's github repository to point to `git@github.com/${GITHUB_USERNAME}/component-fortune.git`

```suggestion
$ commodore component new fortune --owner ${GITHUB_USERNAME}
```

[source,bash]
----
$ commodore component compile dependencies/fortune
Compile component fortune...
GET https://github.com/bitnami-labs/kube-libsonnet/archive/28743043c44c1f5cd69688c202e72d5f677ad02f.tar.gz 200
Compiling catalog...
Compiled fortune (0.07s)
 > Component compiled to /app/data/compiled/fortune
Postprocessing...

$ ls compiled/fortune/fortune
.  ..  deployment.yaml  namespace.yaml  service.yaml

$ cat compiled/fortune/fortune/namespace.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  labels:
    name: syn-fortune
  name: syn-fortune
----

> Our component compiles! Let us create a new project in GitHub to push our code into:

Reviewer: Lines 291-292 (`git remote remove` and `git remote add`) are not required if we pass `--owner ${GITHUB_USERNAME}` to `component new`.

Author: Excellent, thanks!
